Kirk: SPACE:
THE FINAL FRONTIER.
THESE ARE THE VOYAGES
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
ITS FIVE-YEAR MISSION:
TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS,
TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE
AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS,
TO BOLDLY GO
WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5577.3.
WE ARE APPROACHING THE REMAINS
OF THE BURNED-OUT SUPERNOVA
ARACHNA.
REQUESTED UPDATE SURVEY
WILL BEGIN
WITH MEASUREMENTS
OF ITS RADIATION
AND VOLUME EXPANSION.
ARACHNA IS ENTERING ITS CYCLE
OF STRONGEST EMISSIONS,
CAPTAIN.
UHURA, INFORM STARBASE 23
WE HAVE ARRIVED
AT THE GAS CLOUD
AND ARE STARTING TO MAP.
CAPTAIN,
I'M GETTING SOME INTERFERENCE
ON SUBSPACE
EXTREME UPPER REGISTERS.
IF IT'S A SIGNAL,
I DON'T RECOGNIZE IT.
-SOURCE?
-THE STAR CEPHEUS,
FROM ITS SINGLE SATELLITE.
THAT AREA'S NEVER PRODUCED
RADIO TRANSMISSIONS BEFORE.
PUT IT ON THE SPEAKER.
[STATIC]
SIGNALS APPEAR RANDOM.
PERHAPS SOME ARE BEYOND
OUR RECEPTION CAPABILITY.
COULD BE A NATURAL
RADIO SOURCE,
-NEWLY ENERGIZED BY --
-CORRECTION.
ONE ISOLATED
WORD PATTERN DETECTED,
IF YOU ACCEPT INTERSAT CODE
AS STILL OPERATIVE.
INTERSAT?
THAT'S BEEN OUT OF USE
FOR TWO CENTURIES.
THE CODE WORD
IS T-E-R-R-A-T-I-N.
IT'S STOPPED NOW, SIR.
NO RESPONSE AT ALL
TO OUR SIGNAL.
COMPUTERS SHOW
NO IMMEDIATE INFORMATION
ON THE WORD "TERRATIN."
WAS THE WORD TOTALLY RANDOM,
MR. SPOCK?
NO, SIR. IT WAS REPEATED TWICE
IN THE TRANSMISSION.
-MR. SULU, LAY IN A COURSE
FOR CEPHEUS.
-AYE, SIR.
JIM, YOU DON'T MEAN
YOU'RE GOING TO ABANDON
THE MAPPING MISSION
TO CHECK OUT SOME
MEANINGLESS SIGNAL?
MEANINGLESS AT THE MOMENT,
BONES.
BUT IT WAS SENT TWICE.
ODDS AGAINST THAT OCCURRING
IN A TOTALLY RANDOM
TRANSMISSION
ARE TOO HIGH TO IGNORE.
THERE MAY BE SOME INTELLIGENCE
TRYING TO CONTACT US.
MR. SPOCK, CONTINUE RESEARCH
ON THE WORD "TERRATIN."
YES, SIR.
IT'S A WASTE OF TIME
IF YOU ASK ME.
ONLY DATA
IS FROM EARLY EXPLORATION.
PLANET IS LISTED AS CLASS-M,
CORE MOLTEN,
MANTLE AND CRUST
ENTIRELY CRYSTALLINE.
Kirk: BUT NOTHING
IN THE COMPUTER BANKS
ABOUT SURFACE ERUPTIONS.
THERE'S OUR LIKELY
RADIO SOURCE,
SIMPLY CRYSTALLINE PROJECTIONS
OF RECENT VOLCANIC ACTIVITY.
SET FOR A SINGLE
ELLIPTIC ORBIT.
AYE, SIR. ENTERING ORBIT NOW.
I REGISTER A DISTURBANCE,
CAPTAIN,
AS IF AN IMPULSE JUST PASSED
THROUGH THE SHIP.
TYPE AND SOURCE?
UNIDENTIFIED.
IT'S EXTREMELY FAINT
AND DIFFUSED.
CAPTAIN,
I SUGGEST WE DELAY ORBIT
UNTIL IT CAN BE ANALYZED
FOR NATURE AND EFFECT.
Kirk: BRIDGE REPORTS.
Sulu:
ALL INSTRUMENTS FUNCTIONING,
SHIP'S CONDITION NORMAL,
ALL AREA STATUS LIGHTS
ARE GREEN.
SENSORS DETECT
NOTHING ABNORMAL, SIR.
BRIDGE TO ENGINEERING.
SCOTTY, HOW ARE YOUR ENGINES?
PURRING LIKE HAPPY KITTENS,
CAPTAIN.
BRIDGE TO SICKBAY.
BONES, WE'VE JUST RECORDED
AN UNIDENTIFIED IMPULSE.
ANY EFFECT
ON SENSITIVE LAB ANIMALS?
NOTHING, JIM. THE GOSSAMER MICE
SHOW NO SIGNS OF SHOCK.
OUR HALO FISH
IS BRIGHT AS EVER, DOCTOR.
NOW, THIS SPECIES LOSES
ALL COLOR AT THE LEAST
ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE.
Kirk: VERY WELL.
WELL, SPOCK, YOUR X-WAVES
SEEM HARMLESS ENOUGH.
MAKE YOUR ANALYSIS
WHILE WE PROCEED INTO ORBIT.
COMMENCE YOUR SENSOR SWEEP,
MR. AREX.
Arex: SENSORS SHOW
CRYSTALLINE SURFACE
HEAVILY FRACTURED
BY LAVA FLOWS.
ASH AND SMOKE SUSPENDED
IN OXYGEN-NITROGEN ATMOS--
MY EYES!
-Kirk: ANYONE HURT HERE?
-Spock: NO, SIR.
-Sulu: NO, SIR.
-Uhura: NO, SIR.
-LIEUTENANT AREX?
-NO INJURY, SIR.
DAMAGE REPORTS,
ALL SHIP AREAS,
DAMAGE REPORTS.
ALL INSTRUMENTS
FUNCTIONING NORMALLY.
MAINTAINING ORBIT.
BUT STRICTLY
ON IMPULSE POWER, SIR.
WAVE BOMBARDMENT REDUCED,
BUT CONTINUING.
DEFLECTOR SHIELDS INEFFECTIVE.
NO CASUALTIES REPORTED, JIM.
-WHAT HAPPENED?
-DON'T KNOW YET.
ENGINEERING --
NO CASUALTIES, CAPTAIN,
BUT TROUBLE APLENTY
WITH THE ENGINES.
EVERY DILITHIUM
CRYSTAL CONNECTION'S
SMASHED IN THE WARP-ENGINE
CIRCUITRY.
WE'RE TRYING
TO BYPASS THEM NOW.
Kirk: WHAT ABOUT
MAIN CIRCUITS?
Scotty: WELL, YOU HAVE TO SEE IT
TO BELIEVE IT, SIR.
THOSE BIG CRYSTALS IN THERE
HAVE COME APART,
EACH OF THEM UNPEELING
LIKE THE RIND OF AN ORANGE.
Kirk: ANALYSIS, SPOCK.
Scotty: OUR ONLY HOPE NOW
IS REWIRING IMPULSE.
BUT THERE ARE A THOUSAND
BROKEN CONNECTIONS.
CAPTAIN, THIS IS
QUITE UNPRECEDENTED.
NOTICE THE FRACTURING
IS SPIRIFORM,
SIMILAR TO LONG-CHAIN MOLECULES.
BUT DILITHIUM MOLECULES
ARE THE HARDEST, MOST RIGID --
MR. SCOTT!
MORE TROUBLE
WITH THE CIRCUIT WORK.
Scotty: WHAT NOW, GABLER?
ALL THE TOOLS, SIR.
THEY'RE TOO BIG
FOR US TO HANDLE.
YOU SOUND LIKE
YOU'RE BLATHERING, MAN.
WAIT, I'M COMING.
SPOCK, ARE YOU SLUMPING?
I HAVE NEVER SLUMPED
IN MY LIFE, CAPTAIN.
BUT I WAS ABOUT TO ASK YOU
THE SAME --
Briel:
SECURITY! ANYONE, PLEASE.
MESS OFFICER BRIEL
REQUESTING HELP
IN THE MAIN DINING ROOM.
TABLES, CHAIRS, SILVERWARE,
E-EVERYTHING SEEMS
TO HAVE ENLARGED.
WOMEN LOSING RINGS, HAIRPINS.
SOME ARE NEAR PANIC.
CAPTAIN,
THE MOST INCREDIBLE THING
IS HAPPENING.
Kirk:
WE KNOW. THE WHOLE SHIP
HAS APPARENTLY EXPANDED.
AN EQUALLY GOOD POSSIBILITY
IS THAT SHIP'S PERSONNEL
HAVE CONTRACTED,
AND MAY BE CONTINUING
TO SHRINK.
Kirk: TAKE US
OUT OF ORBIT, MR. SULU.
SHUT DOWN
ALL UNNECESSARY SYSTEMS.
GET EVERY OUNCE
OF IMPULSE POWER.
WE'VE GOT TO GET AWAY
FROM THIS PLANET.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5577.5.
OUR LIMITED POWER ATTEMPT
TO ESCAPE THE PLANET'S GRAVITY
HAS FAILED.
UNDEFINED WAVE BOMBARDMENT
CONTINUES,
RESULTING IN
A CONTRACTION OF OUR BODIES,
OR AN EXPANSION OF THE SHIP,
BY A FACTOR OF 0.3.
NO REPLY TO OUR MAYDAY,
CAPTAIN.
I DON'T BELIEVE
WE HAVE ENOUGH POWER
TO TRANSMIT
TO STARBASE 23.
VERY WELL.
SPOCK, WHAT HAVE YOU LEARNED
ABOUT THE WAVE BOMBARDING US?
ONLY THAT IT IS COMPLEX
BEYOND ANYTHING
IN MY EXPERIENCE.
Scotty: ENGINEERING
TO CAPTAIN KIRK.
KIRK HERE. HOW ARE THEY
HOLDING OUT, SCOTTY?
Scotty: WE'VE REPLACED
ALL THE DAMAGED PARTS WE CAN.
WITH ALL THAT'S
DRAINING THEM,
THE WELL WILL SOON ENOUGH
RUN DRY, SIR.
THANK YOU, SCOTTY. KIRK OUT.
UHURA, REDUCE MAYDAY SIGNALS.
ONE PER 10-MINUTE CYCLE.
CUT DOWN SENSOR SWEEPS,
MR. AREX.
VISUAL SWEEPS
ARE ALREADY IMPOSSIBLE, SIR.
MY EYES NO LONGER
FIT THE OPTICALS.
AND I CAN'T REACH THE DIAL
I TURNED FIVE MINUTES AGO.
KIRK TO SICKBAY.
SICKBAY. McCOY HERE.
BONES, I NEED SOME ANSWERS.
WHAT'S HAPPENING TO US?
McCoy:
COME DOWN TO THE LAB, JIM.
I MAY HAVE SOMETHING
FOR YOU NOW.
THERE'S THE TEST TISSUE, JIM,
COMPARED WITH
THE STABLE INFRARED.
Kirk: THEN SPOCK'S THEORY
IS RIGHT.
WE'RE CONTRACTING.
THAT'S WHY OUR WEIGHT
REMAINS THE SAME,
SAME NUMBER OF ATOMS.
THE EFFECT IS JUST
REDUCING THE SPACE
BETWEEN THE MOLECULES.
IT'S SOMETHING
I'VE NEVER SEEN BEFORE.
AGREED.
AND IT IS ACCELERATING.
HOW LONG CAN IT KEEP ON?
AD INFINITUM, PERHAPS,
CONSIDERING DISTANCE
BETWEEN ATOMS
IS RELATIVELY AS GREAT
AS BETWEEN STARS.
DR. McCOY! THE ANIMALS!
THEY'RE-- THEY'RE GETTING
TOO SMALL FOR THE CAGE MESH.
ALL THE GOSSAMERS ARE OUT!
AND--AND L-LOOK HOW TINY
THEY'VE GOTTEN!
THEY'RE JUST LIKE HALO FISH.
IT'S-- IT'S TADPOLE-SIZED NOW.
MISS CHAPEL,
WHAT IS THE COMPOSITION
OF THIS DECORATION?
Chapel: IT WAS MADE FOR ME
BY THE TITANIUM SMITHS
OF LIBRA, BUT...
IT WAS AN ARM BRACELET.
MORE LIKE A NECKLACE NOW.
YET THE UNIFORM
ON WHICH YOU WEAR IT
FITS AS WELL AS EVER.
UNIFORM MADE OF
ALGAE-BASED XENYLON,
I BELIEVE.
AREN'T ALL OUR UNIFORMS
XENYLON?
YES, AND THEY'VE
ALL BEEN SHRINKING
PROPORTIONATELY WITH US.
THIS CORAL DECORATION
FOR THE AQUARIUM
IS ALSO SHRINKING.
YET THE METEORITIC ROCK
IN THERE IS UNCHANGED.
THAT MEANS ONLY
ORGANIC MATTER IS AFFECTED.
BUT HOW?
THE WAVE TENDS TO WIND TIGHT
SUCH SPIRAL MOLECULES
AS DILITHIUM.
THERE IS ONE OTHER
MOLECULAR STRUCTURE --
OF COURSE,
THE DOUBLE HELIX OF DNA,
NUCLEUS OF EVERY CELL
IN OUR BODIES.
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN DNA
IS COMPACTED COMPLETELY?
THE STRANDS
WOULDN'T BREAK, JIM,
THEY'D JUST QUIT WINDING.
THEN WE CAN CALCULATE
THE LIMITS TO OUR SHRINKAGE.
Spock: IT'S POSSIBLE.
I'LL FEED THE DATA
INTO THE COMPUTER BANKS.
SOMETHING ELSE
WE'D BETTER DETERMINE FIRST.
HOW LONG CAN WE EXPECT
TO MAINTAIN CONTROL
OF OUR SHIP?
THE COMPUTER
WILL PROJECT THE POINT
AT WHICH SYSTEMS' SWITCHES
AND BUTTONS WILL BE BEYOND
OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5577.7.
WE WILL LOSE EFFECTIVE CONTROL
OF THIS VESSEL
AT THE POINT WHEN
WE'LL BECOME APPROXIMATELY
ONE CENTIMETER TALL.
AT THE PRESENT RATE,
WE WILL REACH THIS
LESS-THAN-FINGERNAIL LENGTH
IN 32 MINUTES.
SPOCK, HOW SMALL
WILL WE ULTIMATELY SHRINK?
NO INFORMATION ON THAT
AS YET, SIR.
I DO HAVE ONE READ-OUT
ON FULL SPIROID
WAVE ANALYSIS.
THAT WILL TAKE
APPROXIMATELY EIGHT YEARS.
Kirk: BYPASS THAT ANALYSIS.
WE'VE GOT 29 MINUTES
BEFORE WE'RE TOO SMALL
TO OPERATE SHIP CONTROLS.
EVERYONE CONTINUE TO JURY-RIG
MINIATURE CONTROL MECHANISMS.
THERE'S NOTHING MORE
WE CAN DO.
BUT THERE IS, CAPTAIN.
REQUEST PERMISSION
TO DIRECT PHASER FIRE
AT THE PLANET.
JUST LET ME SET
FOR 10 SECONDS, SIR.
AIMING AT WHAT, MR. SULU?
SO FAR ALL SOURCE STUDIES
HAVE SHOWN
THE WAVES COME FROM AN AREA
AS LARGE AS ONE-SIXTH
THE PLANET'S SURFACE.
PHASER FIRE
WILL ONLY WASTE POWER.
WHAT GOOD WILL IT DO
TO WAIT LIKE THIS?
JUST ONE BURST, SIR,
ONE SINGLE...
[THUD]
SULU!
I THINK HIS LEG'S BROKEN.
WE'LL NEED A SPLINT.
LET'S GET HIM
TO SICKBAY.
EVERYONE BACK TO STATIONS.
THE ELECTRIC EYE -- WE'VE GROWN
TOO SMALL TO MAKE IT WORK.
[SCANNER BEEPING]
McCoy: WHAT HAPPENED?
Kirk: HE FELL
FROM THE CONSOLE TOP.
MORE AND MORE
FALL INJURIES COMING.
HMM.
COMPOUND FRACTURE.
OH, IF ONLY WE COULD USE
OUR BONE-KNITTING LASER.
DR. McCOY.
THAT MICROSCOPE LASER,
THE ONE DESIGNED
TO HEAL THE MIDDLE EAR,
WELL, WOULDN'T IT WORK HERE?
IT'S CERTAINLY WORTH A TRY.
IT'S IN THE LAB SHELF
SUPPLIES. I'LL GET IT.
HELP!
HELP! HELP!
Kirk: NO MORE CLIMBING HEIGHTS
FOR YOU, NURSE.
GOT THAT CLEAR?
Chapel: YES, CAPTAIN.
BUT I'VE ALSO GOT
THE MINIATURE LASER.
-Kirk: HOW IS IT, SULU?
-I CAN FEEL IT KNITTING, SIR.
RESULTS ON DNA
REDUCTION LIMITS
HAVE COME THROUGH, CAPTAIN.
WHAT ARE THEY?
FACTOR OF 32.9.
IN OTHER WORDS,
WE'RE GOING DOWN
TO ONE-SIXTEENTH
OF AN INCH HIGH.
YES, CAPTAIN,
WELL PAST THE OPERATIVE POINT
OF ENTERPRISE CONTROLS.
CAN YOU CALCULATE
THE GEOGRAPHIC CENTER
OF THE WAVE EMISSIONS
FROM THE PLANET'S SURFACE?
EASILY, CAPTAIN.
MAY I ASK THE PURPOSE?
IT'S AS GOOD A PLACE AS ANY
TO BEAM DOWN.
KIRK TO ENGINEERING.
-SCOTTY, CAN YOU HEAR ME?
-Scotty: BARELY, SIR.
GET A CREW DOWN
TO TRANSPORTER ROOM 3.
WE HAVE 20 MINUTES LEFT
WHILE WE CAN STILL OPERATE
TRANSPORTER CONTROLS.
Scotty: HOW MANY
BEAMING DOWN, CAPTAIN?
Kirk: ONE, SCOTTY. MYSELF.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
SUPPLEMENTAL.
THERE IS ONE LAST MEASURE
WE CAN TAKE
TO TRY AND STOP
THE BOMBARDMENT
OF THE LETHAL SPIROID WAVE.
THERE MUST BE
SOME INTELLIGENCE BEHIND IT.
I'M GOING TO ATTEMPT
DIRECT COMMUNICATION
BY BEAMING DOWN
TO THE PLANET'S SURFACE.
WE HAVE NO REASON
TO EXPECT SUCCESS.
BUT OUR HEIGHT IS LITTLE MORE
THAN TWO INCHES,
AND EVEN THIS ACTION
WILL BE BEYOND US
IN 15 MINUTES' TIME.
Spock: THIS IS THE BEST
I COULD DO IN RIGGING
SO SMALL A COMMUNICATOR, SIR.
Kirk: THANKS, SPOCK.
ITS RANGE
CANNOT BE GUARANTEED.
HOW WILL WE PINPOINT YOU
FOR RETURN IN CASE IT FAILS?
SCOTTY,
SET AUTOMATIC RETURN FOR ME.
IF THERE'S ANYTHING
TO BE FOUND DOWN THERE,
10 MINUTES SHOULD DO IT.
AYE, SIR. TIMER BEING SET.
[CLICK]
CAPTAIN, THE TRANSPORTER
RETAINS A MEMORY
OF THE BODY'S
MOLECULAR STRUCTURE.
WILL IT APPLY AS WELL
TO YOUR PRESENT HEIGHT?
WE'LL KNOW THAT
IN 10 MINUTES.
AFTER THAT,
IT WON'T MATTER ANYMORE.
PREPARE TO ENERGIZE.
-GOOD LUCK, SIR.
-ENERGIZE.
ALL RIGHT, THEN.
HEAVE, LADS. HEAVE!
[BEEPING]
KIRK TO ENTERPRISE.
I THINK WE HAVE AN ANSWER
TO THE HEIGHT PROBLEM.
THE TRANSPORTER BEAM
APPARENTLY
RETURNS OUR MOLECULES
TO NORMAL SPACING.
[EXPLOSIONS]
KIRK TO ENTERPRISE.
DO YOU READ ME?
Spock: WE READ YOU, CAPTAIN.
WAVE BOMBARDMENT
HAS JUST CEASED.
I THINK I SEE...
[EXPLOSIONS]
SCOTTY? SPOCK?
-Kirk: SCOTTY, IS IT YOU?
-Scotty: AYE, CAPTAIN.
FOR THE LOVE OF HEAVEN,
BE CAREFUL WHERE YOU STEP.
IS EVERYONE SAFE?
CAPTAIN,
YOU'LL DEAFEN US FOR SURE!
[SOFTLY]
EVERYONE ACCOUNTED FOR?
ALL BUT THE BRIDGE CREW, SIR!
THEY WERE TRYING
TO MAN THEIR POSTS HERE,
WHEN ALL OF A SUDDEN
THEY WERE BEAMED AWAY,
EVERY LIVING ONE OF THEM!
[BEEPING]
ALL PERSONNEL,
AWAY FROM HELM AREA.
GO TO THE FAR BULKHEAD.
MESSAGE TO
THE INHABITANTS OF THE CITY
ON THE PLANET BELOW.
I HOPE YOU CAN
RECEIVE THIS FREQUENCY
AND UNDERSTAND MY WORDS.
YOUR SURVIVAL DEPENDS ON IT.
ALL THIS SHIP'S ARMAMENT
IS LOCKED
ON THE COORDINATES
OF YOUR CITY.
A DEMONSTRATION,
IN CASE YOU DOUBT.
YOU HAVE ONE MINUTE
TO RESTORE MY BRIDGE CREW
UNHARMED,
OR YOU WILL UNDERGO
FULL BARRAGE.
IN THE NAME
OF THE TERRATIN PEOPLE,
I FORBID YOU TO DESTROY US,
CAPTAIN KIRK.
YOU FORBID ME
AFTER WHAT YOU'VE DONE
TO MY PEOPLE?
I AM MENDANT
OF ALL THIS CITY,
EQUAL IN COMMAND TO YOURSELF.
WE ARE PEOPLE
OF PRIDE, CAPTAIN,
EQUAL TO YOUR OWN.
WE NEITHER SUFFER INSULT,
NOR GIVE APOLOGY FOR ACTIONS.
BUT I GIVE THEM NOW,
FOR DAMAGE DONE
YOUR STARSHIP.
BE ASSURED, THIS LAND
CONTAINS MUCH DILITHIUM
TO REPLACE THAT YOU LOST.
WHERE ARE MY OFFICERS?
I REQUEST YOU TO UNDERSTAND.
WE TRIED TO TELL YOU
OUR PLIGHT AS YOU PASSED,
THAT OUR ADOPTED PLANET
IS DYING.
BUT OUR GREAT ANTENNA
WAS BURIED.
WE HAD NO CHOICE BUT TO USE
OUR INVASION DEFENSE
TO REACH YOU.
YOU STILL HAVEN'T
ANSWERED MY QUESTION.
EITHER YOU TELL ME
WHAT'S HAPPENED
TO MY PEOPLE --
Arex: HERE WE ARE, CAPTAIN.
WE'RE DOWN HERE
IN THE CAPITOL BUILDING
OF THE TERRATINS, SIR.
THEY BEAMED US DOWN
WITH THEIR TRANSPORTERS.
SEE FOR YOURSELF.
SPOCK, WHO ARE THE TERRATINS?
WHERE DID THEY COME FROM?
DESCENDANTS
OF AN EARLY LOST COLONY,
WHICH IS WHY THEY RETAIN
SOME KNOWLEDGE
OF STARSHIP METHODS,
SUCH AS
TRANSPORTER MECHANISMS.
THESE EARTH COLONISTS NAMED
AND NUMBERED THIS PLANET
TERRA TEN,
HENCE THE PRESENT CORRUPTION
OF THEIR NAME.
THERE'VE BEEN
NO EARTH COLONISTS
A SIXTEENTH OF AN INCH TALL.
EXACTLY WHY THEY WERE LOST,
CAPTAIN.
SPIROID EPSILON WAVES
ARE NATURAL HERE
AND SHRANK THEM TO THIS SIZE.
IT HAS BECOME
A GENETIC CHARACTERISTIC NOW.
OUR ANCESTORS WERE TOO SMALL
EVER TO BE FOUND AGAIN,
CAPTAIN KIRK.
WE HAD TO BUILD
OUR OWN WORLD,
MASTER OUR OWN WAYS,
OUR OWN DEFENSE.
WE SOUGHT NO OUTSIDERS,
ASKED NO HELP.
[RUMBLING]
NOW YOU SEE, CAPTAIN KIRK.
WE ARE ABOUT TO LOSE ALL.
WE HAD TO FORCE HELP
FROM YOUR SHIP.
YOUR ACTIONS
ALL BUT LOST US OUR SHIP.
I DO NOT KNOW HOW TO BEG.
I CAN ONLY REQUEST.
SAVE AS MANY OF MY PEOPLE
AS YOU CAN.
THEY HAD
NO OTHER WAY TO REACH US
EXCEPT TO MAKE US THEIR SIZE.
THEY DIDN'T MEAN US HARM, SIR.
I CAN HELP NO ONE
UNDER PRESENT CONDITIONS.
ALL BRIDGE CREW
PREPARE TO BEAM ABOARD.
EACH OF YOU CARRY
AS MUCH DILITHIUM
AS YOU CAN FIND.
THE CAPTAIN ORDERS DILITHIUM.
BRING THE LARGEST CRYSTALS
IN THE CITY.
BRIDGE CREW,
PREPARE TO BEAM UP.
ENERGIZE, CAPTAIN.
NICE TO BE BACK ABOARD, SIR,
AND FITTING THE ROOM AGAIN.
ALL CREW PERSONNEL,
REPORT TO TRANSPORTER ROOMS
IMMEDIATELY.
PREPARE TO BEAM DOWN
TO PLANET SURFACE.
THE TERRATINS
ARE MAKING AVAILABLE
ALL POSSIBLE DILITHIUM.
THE CRYSTALS ARE SMALL,
BUT I BELIEVE THEY WILL
PROVIDE ENOUGH POWER
UNTIL WE CAN OBTAIN
LARGER PIECES.
SULU, TAKE OVER
THE TRANSPORTER HERE. SPOCK.
INFORM YOUR CAPTAIN.
GREAT EARTH CRACKS
WILL SOON SWALLOW ALL.
HE MUST TELL US.
SHALL WE PREPARE
TO BE RESCUED
OR TO DIE?
HOW'S THE HELM, SULU?
RESPONSIVE, SIR.
SUBSPACE RADIO
NOW OPERATIONAL, SIR.
STARBASE 23 IS READING.
LAST OF THE CREW
BEAMED UP, SIR.
DILITHIUM SUPPLIES
ARE FULLY RESTORED.
MR. AREX, PREPARE FOR
IMMEDIATE DEPARTURE
FROM THIS AREA.
CAPTAIN, WHAT ABOUT
THE PEOPLE ON THE PLANET?
MR. SULU, DIRECT FORWARD
PHASERS AT THE TERRATIN CITY.
SET FOR PINPOINT FIRE PATTERN.
SPOCK, THE MACROSCOPE.
MENDANT,
WE WELCOME YOUR PEOPLE
ABOARD THE ENTERPRISE.
Mendant: CAPTAIN KIRK,
WE WELCOME YOUR EYE
UPON OUR CITY.
WE'RE NOW HEADED
FOR YOUR NEW HOME.
THE PLANET VERDANIS,
10 DAYS DISTANT.
IS IT BEAUTIFUL,
AS WE WERE TOLD?
VERY BEAUTIFUL,
MUCH LIKE EARTH.
PEOPLE OF THE ENTERPRISE,
WE HAVE NO WAY TO PAY
THE DEBT WE OWE.
BUT THIS AT LEAST
COMES FROM A MEETING
OF ALL OUR NUMBERS.
WE NAME YOU HONORARY TERRATINS
NOW, AND FOR ALL TIME TO COME.
WE CAME RATHER CLOSE
TO MAKING IT MORE THAN HONORARY.
YES. I'D SAY JUST ABOUT
A SIXTEENTH OF AN INCH CLOSE.
CAPTAIN'S LOG, SUPPLEMENTAL.
THE LILLIPUTIAN CITY
IS TO BE TAKEN TO VERDANIS
AND RELOCATED ON A FERTILE
AND WELL-WATERED PLAIN.
THEN WE'LL BE ABLE TO CALL
THE TERRATIN INCIDENT CLOSED.